Hello everyone, my name is Aishwarya Sharma. I am from Agra. I am pursuing my B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering with specialization in DevOps from University Of Petroleum And Energy Studies, Dehradun.

I am interested in learning new technical skills and listening to soft music. I also love playing sports games like basketball, badminton and chess. One of my hobbies also includes spending my leisure time with the orphanage children as it gives me immense pleasure when my small little deeds brings smile on the faces of the little children.

Learning new computer languages and creating simple codes is my passion. And i want to gain the technical skills which can help me become a worthy software engineer.

Now talking about our course Designing Thinking, before reading the content what i felt about design thinking was it is the study of problems and finding their soutions in a creative manner.

After reading the module, i can now cleary state what is design thinking.

Design thinking is a area where a set of creative tools is used by the designers to turn problems into opportunities. Design thinking can contribute to sustainability & positive social change in the lives of the people and the society. 


Design thinking processes consists of five phases:
1.Empathetic understanding of the problem and talking with the people who are actually facing it.
Advise from the expert should also be taken. 
2.Defining the problem on the basis of all the information collected.
3.Giving various ideas about the solutions to the problem.
4.Prototyping-A number of inexpensive, scaled down versions of the product or peculiar features are found within the product by the design team, so they can investigate the problem solutions generated in the previous stage.
5.Testing-It is an iterative process. The complete product is tested by the designers using the best solutions which were identified during the phase of prototyping.

Design thinking can be used in everyday life to solve problems. For example there is a drought prone area where people have to travel to long distances for fetching up buckets of water. Here designing thinking can be applied to solve the problem. Like pipeline system can be made or water transport facilities can be made available to the people of the region.
Innovation is the core for design thinking. Design thinking is not only limited to a specific area it can be applied even to business, arts, fashion,  designing, education, engineering and many other industries & professions.

After studying the five phases of design thinking i learnt a new feature about design thinking and it is that the solutions that are given by the designers are also tested and changes are made in it if any faults or side effects are detected. In short the process is continuous and iterative for the accurate solution of the problem.
 